---
title: 'Home'
---
# DHKO
**Norwegian network for Digital Humanities and Culture Organization**

DHKO is an informal network of academics who are interested in/work within the field of digital humanities, in a broad or narrow sense. This includes:

-	Humanistic perspectives on the digital, digital technologies and digital materials.
-	Use of software and digital methods of analysis and interpretation in humanities-oriented research.

  
Because humanistic material often has a connection to libraries, archives, and museums, this network intends to position itself within the LAM sector and to link research to, and with, cultural and information institutions. The network is therefore open to academics from a wide range of backgrounds, and affiliation to a specific institution is not a requirement.

The concept “culture organization” refers to that which includes the organization, storage, and making available of cultural artifacts and culture as data. In other words, infrastructural conditions.

The network’s objective is to create space for the exchange of professional experiences, as well as to contribute to strengthening the digital humanities in Norway, especially with regard to the LAM sector. These objectives will be promoted through the organization of conferences, seminars, and webinars, as well as working in collaboration with research support at the institutional libraries in Norway.

In the long term, the network will work to establish Ph.D. courses, a summer school course for master’s students, and thematic publications by various journals. The network also hopes to be a catalyst for the development of collaborative research projects across institutions, both within Norway and internationally. Our aims are thus for the network to lead to new and fruitful research collaborations, as well as contribute with research from, to, and for the LAM sector.

To support this development, we will collaborate with similar networks in other countries in Europe, with a particular focus on the Nordic region. Here, [DHNB](https://dhnb.eu/) is an organization we see as important for covering the Nordic and Baltic regions.

## Join the mailing list and become a member of the network

The network has an active mailing list with almost 200 members (December 2025). Being registered on this list also makes you a member, without any further obligations. The only thing we encourage is sharing tips, news, calls for papers, conferences, and other relevant information.

By being on this list, you also gain access to updates and news from the working group.

[Join here!](https://gaggle.email/join/dhko.list@dhko.no) 

## Follow us 
DHKO is on [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/did:plc:eo26qkto3fp3fszvhuwothov), [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/dhko/) & [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@DHKO-Norway)

# Conference 2026

Our fourth annual conference will take place 14th-15th October at Høgskolen i Østfold (HiØ).
