---
title: 'Working Groups'
---


# Working Groups

Our working groups support the network’s aim to strengthen digital humanities in Norway. 
They provide spaces for collaboration within defined areas and extend the network’s activities beyond the yearly conference and lecture series.

The current working groups are:

- [The Board Group](#the-board)  
- [The Webinar Group](#the-webinar-group)  
- [The Annual Conference Group](#the-annual-conference-group)  
- [DH and Libraries in Higher Education](#dh-and-libraries-in-higher-education)  
- [DH in Norwegian](#dh-in-norwegian)   

Members who wish to join a working group are invited to submit an expression of interest.  
All DHKO members may take part. Membership in the network is obtained by registering on the [mailing list](https://gaggle.email/join/dhko.list@dhko.no).

<br>

<a id="the-board"></a>
## The Board Group

The board working groups consist of a selection of academics affiliated with various institutions in Norway, and the work is unpaid. The working group is elected annually at the beginning of January. We strive to have at least one person from each major Norwegian institution where it is relevant. The working group commits to using the institution's available funds to promote the network's activities. 

### 2025 Board Group
**Leader**

Camilla Holm Soelseth | camil@oslomet.no | OsloMet 

**Other Members**: 

Dianna Walla | NTNU

Lina Ruth Harder | CDN, UiB

Emma Aadland | UB, UiB

Nick Walkley | AHO

**Advisor** 

Annika Rockenberger | annika.rockenberger@ub.uio.no | UB, UiO 

**Webmaster**: 

Henrik Askjer | UiB

<br>

<a id="the-webinar-group"></a>
## Webinar Group

The Webinar Group coordinates the [DH lecture series](https://dhko.no/en/webinar) in collaboration with the Digital Lab at the University Library in Bergen and D-Lab at NTNU. The series highlights current work in digital humanities and offers researchers and practitioners a forum to present projects, methods, and challenges.

Emma Aadland | UB, UiB

Inger Hesjevoll Schmidt-Melbye | UB, NTNU

Per-Olav Broback Rasch | UB, NTNU

<br>

<a id="the-annual-conference-group"></a>
## The Annual Conference Group
The conference board includes a committee from the working group and a committee from the host institution for that year’s conference. 

In 2026, the host is Høgskolen i Østfold (HiØ). 

<!-- # Conference 2025 

In 2025, the host is the Innland University.

From DHKO: Dianna Walla, Nick Walkley and Camilla H Soelseth

From Innland University: Sirir Fürst Shogmo, Ida Jahr, and Karianne Dæhlin Hagen

 -->
<br>

<a id="dh-and-libraries-in-higher-education"></a>
## DH and Libraries in Higher Education

<br>

<a id="dh-in-norwegian"></a>
## DH in Norwegian

The working group’s task is to develop a term base at [Termportalen](https://www.termportalen.no/) for Digital Humanities in Norwegian. The goal of the terminology work is to contribute to strengthening the use of Norwegian subject-specific terminology in research and teaching in Digital Humanities. Students, researchers, and the LAM sector are the primary target groups. To begin with, we are working on a translation of [TaDiRAH](https://tadirah.info/) (Taxonomy of Digital Research Activities in the Humanities) to Norwegian. The working group consists of a terminology group (that actively carries out the terminology work) and a reference group (that contributes feedback on the terminology work carried out by the terminology group). If you’d like to join either the terminology group or the reference group, get in touch with [Dianna Walla](mailto:dianna.walla@ntnu.no).

### Members in the terminology group
Dianna Walla | dianna.walla@ntnu.no | NTNU

Camilla Holm Soelseth | OsloMet

Emma Aadland | UiB
 
### Members in the reference group
Ingerid Løyning Dale | Nasjonalbiblioteket
