---
title: 'Yearly Conference'
---

# DHKO 2026

## Digital Humanities, Society, and Democracy

The fourth annual conference of the National Research Network for Digital Humanities and Culture Organisation (DHKO) will be held at Høgskolen i Østfold (HiØ) at Campus Remmen, organised in colloboration with the research group *Tekst-i-kontekst* on **Wednesday 14th and Thursday 15th October 2026**. This year's DKHO conference focuses on digital humanities and their relationship to society and democracy. We are inviting contributions to the conference; see the Call for Papers below. The deadline for submitting abstracts is **15 May**.

[Webpage for the conference](https://www.hiof.no/forskning/satsingsomrader/sprak-i-oppleringen/ella/arrangementer/konferanse-norsk-nettverk-for-digital-humaniora-og.html) 

We live in a time characterized by a rapidly changing geopolitical climate, where democracy is under pressure. How can digital humanities within academia and libraries, archives, and museums (LAMs) contribute to societal preparedness and critical technology use in such a context? The DHKO conference 2026 explores these questions through a thematic focus on the interaction between digital humanities and society.

Previous DHKO conferences have often thematized resources and methods within AI, focusing on the opportunities AI can provide. However, the development of generative AI and the concentration of power in the technology industry raises questions about how the Norwegian language and society are equipped. How can AI contribute to solving this societal challenge, and what infrastructural investments are necessary?

If AI technologies represent the most modern side of digital humanities, two of the most classic methods are corpus studies and distant reading. Both methods can contribute to examining uneven power structures and, by extension, helping us shape a more democratic society.

In a broader perspective, the conference will lay the foundation for a more inclusive discussion about digital structures and their social implications, with the aim of reducing unjust power structures. These initiatives are essential for achieving both national and international goals in research and cultural dissemination.

Suggested **themes** include but are not limited to:

- Digital humanities and society
- Digital humanities and democracy
- Critical perspectives on technology in society
- Digital sovereignty
- Freedom and resistance in digital dissemination in the LAM field
- Experience-sharing and discussion of open source / open access
- DH methods to amplify marginalized voices
- Digital humanities, AI and the future

We invite contributions either in the form of *oral presentation, poster or workshop*. The overall focus should be on digital humanities and its relationship to society and democracy. We accept contributions in Scandinavian languages and English and look forward to many pleasant reunions and new acquaintances.

Send abstracts (max 300 words) to: DHKO2026@hiof.no.

**Abstract submission deadline: May 15.**

Format and language: Please indicate whether your submission is for an oral presentation, poster, or workshop, as well as which language you will use.

--

Contact persons: 

Marcus Axelsson **marcus.axelsson@hiof.no**

Anje Müller Gjesdal **anje.m.gjesdal@hiof.no**

<!--

THE ENTIRE PAGE IS HIDDEN


# Conference 2025

The third annual conference of the National Research Network for Digital Humanities and Culture Organisation (DHKO) will be held at University of Inland Norway at Campus Hamar in collaboration with the research group *Digital Communication and Culture* and the research project *Verden på norsk*, on **Wednesday 15th and Thursday 16th October 2025**.


**Deadline for submission of abstract: 15th August 2025.**

This year's conference has the theme “Infrastructure and Interface”. With this, we wish to encompass all humanistically oriented research on, with and about infrastructures and interfaces. From visual epistemology, via digital media and materials, to research infrastructures and organisation of culture. And not least archives, museums and libraries as infrastructures and interfaces for digital humanities research for past, present, and future.

This year's conference will include workshops and presentations, as well as two keynotes (TBA).
Presenters and workshop participants at the conference will also have the opportunity to contribute articles to a special issue of a peer-reviewed Norwegian Register Level 1 journal, [DHNB Publications](https://journals.uio.no/dhnbpub), following the conference.



[Webpage for the conference is here](https://www.inn.no/om-universitetet/fakultet-for-lererutdanning-og-pedagogikk/arrangementer-fra-lup/dhko-2025/index.html)


[Call for papers (PDF) is here](https://www.inn.no/om-universitetet/fakultet-for-lererutdanning-og-pedagogikk/arrangementer-fra-lup/dhko-2025/call-for-papers-dhko-2025.pdf)

For questions: **dhko2025@inn.no**
<br>
<br>

# Earlier Conferences

## Conference 2024
The second conference was held at NTNU in October 2024 and had the theme ["Digital and digitized traces".](https://www.ntnu.no/kalender/detaljer/-/event/902e7ad4-9c7a-3516-8791-92ea6202efa4) 


## Conference 2023
Our first conference was held at UiO in October 2023. [A summary of the conference can be found here.](https://www.ub.uio.no/bibliotekene/dsc/digiforsk-bloggen/20231106_dhko.html)

-->
